---
title: All Hands – Information to Share
author: "Marion Gray-Lion"
date: 2017-06-13 12:00:00 CDT
topic: "week2"
layout: post
root: ../../../
tags: [forensics, statistics, assignments]
---
 
          The CSAFE All-Hands Meeting was held at the Gateway Hotel in Ames, Iowa starting on Wednesday, June 07, 2017, evening (with an informal greet / meet session), continuing into the following day (Thursday), and wrapping up at noon on Friday. There were presenters of various research projects from the following universities: University of California at Irvine (UCI), Iowa State University (ICU), Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) and the University of Virginia (UVA). The projects included topics on: Human Factors affecting data analysis, Statistical Foundations, Blood Spatter Analysis, Fingerprints, Firearms and Handwriting, Digital Forensics, 
and Shoeprints. The presentations initiated with five minute summaries of the research and the results were expounded further with poster presentations at the end of the evening. There were two break-away sessions to discuss different approaches to the research and possible future endeavors involving the research. 
     Two of the break-away sessions were the Blood Spatter Analysis (BSA) and Shoeprint Analysis. In the first session with the BSA, Daniel Attinger led the discussion with contributions from the other attendees. The issues of reliable data collection practices and an accessible reference database were the main concepts discussed. William Eddy and Lotem Kaplan discussed the research they had conducted in providing a predictable model of blood spatter analysis by using virtual models and Mr. Eddy explained how this was possible by applying statistical concepts, especially involving inverse relationships. Mike Halverson, from the Iowa State Crime Lab, offered comments on procedure and analysis (following forensic collection guidelines). These methods were questioned by Mr. Attinger and he demonstrated contradictory concepts to the methods. He contended that the “string method” of determining the point of origin and convergence was unreliable. There was the general agreement that what is available in terms of reliable references to blood spatter patterns and interpretation needs to be improved upon. Variables were discussed that could affect the interpretation of the data, which included the velocity of the blood travel, the force impacting the velocity, different cloth fibers (absorption), and the state / condition of the blood itself.
      The second break-away session attended was the Shoeprint Analysis. This session was led by 
Charless Faulkes and two officers from the Israeli Police Department were present: Yaron Shor and Serena Weisner. There was discussion into how the Israeli Police have initiated a database for shoeprint analysis containing accidentals and how the data and research is funded by the 
National Institute of Justice (NIJ). Ms. Weisner explained the procedure into collecting the data, which included obtaining the best print possible from a “new shoe” and then accidentals (nicks, cuts, etc) were introduced to the shoe tread, analyzed, and recorded. Ms. Weisner and Mr. Shor expounded upon the methods they used for the data to apply the independent variables from the accidentals to match / no match scenarios in order to establish a threshold. Students from ISA and CMU are also conducting research projects of their own and there was discussion into the establishing a collaboration of the different research projects to establish a comprehensive database since what has been collected so far by the individual projects is not complete enough for reference. Incentives towards recruiting research participants were discussed along with the future applications of 3-D imaging. There was the general agreement that once a comprehensive database is established, the probability determination of a certain shoe tread being present at a crime scene will be better determined.
     The most intriguing part of the presentations I encountered was the BSA. The interaction and the topics discussed demonstrated that there is a need to learn more about BSA and to re-evaluate what is known on this subject. If I were a full-time CSAFE researcher, I would want to contribute my efforts into improving the interpretation and analysis of BSA. I believe as forensic science continually improves in the analysis and the ability to re-create the scene of a crime, an offender hopefully will be deterred from committing the crime as the knowledge of the crime scene investigation and forensic evidence grows in proficiency and reputation. Since blood has a very short time period before deterioration, I would propose using “artificial flesh models” filled with synthetic blood (with properties that are very similar to blood). With these models, research could be conducted using the different techniques, which cause blood spatter while the occurrence is being filmed using high speed cameras stationed at x,y, and z coordinates to obtain a 3-D image.
     The day of the presentations (Thursday) concluded with a poster session and dinner. The poster I was interested in was completed by Lotem Kaplan and William Eddy from Carnegie Mellon University. I talked with Mr. Eddy and he explained that the question they were attempting to answer (the work is still on-going) pertains to what the events are leading up to the blood spatter and applying mathematical problems using inverse probabilities to predict future outcomes. One result that was reported dealt with the filming of a blood droplet as it fell 100 cm so a virtual model could be established with a blood droplet falling 50 cm. I questioned Mr. Eddy about his views on what was discussed during the first break-away session and he stated that the validity of the claims need to be tested. The evening concluded with a captivating speech from Judge Barbara Hervey and dinner. The following day, summations were given of all the break-away meetings.
     The All-Hands Meeting was interesting and informative. The presentations helped spread the awareness of what CSAFE and its affiliated organizations are conducting to improve forensic evidence collection, analysis, and interpretation. This meeting helped stress the importance of the work that is being done and hopefully will continue. Overall, this meeting was a memorable experience and offered valuable insight into the possible new techniques in forensic science.
