---
title: "All Hands Meeting"
subtitle: "Anna Steffensmeier"
date: "2017-06-13 12:00:00 CDT"
topic: "week2"
layout: post
root: ../../../
tags: [forensics, statistics, assignments]
---
 
## Background:

During the 8:30am, 10:00am, and 11:00am, sessions pay close attention to the 5-10 minute project reports. Whichever ones most interest you should correspond to the afternoon sessions at 1:00pm and 3:15pm. Have your agenda with you so that you can take notes on which afternoon sessions you want to attend. Decide during lunch and the breaks in between sessions how to split yourselves up into the groups so that **no more** than 3 of you are in any 1 group in the 1:00pm session, and **no more** than 4 of you are in any 1 group in the 3:15pm session. You can choose who attends which session however you want. 

In the afternoon sessions you choose to visit, play close attention and take good notes! This blog assignment should be treated like a "report back" to your colleagues who aren't able to attend the others. You have to report the information as accurately and completely as you are able to.

Some questions to consider for **each** of the afternoon sessions:

1. What forensic methods are discussed?
2. What statistical methods are discussed?
3. If you were a full-time researcher with CSAFE, which one of the projects presented in the group would you most like to work on? Why?
4. What future work is discussed? What holes are the projects trying to fill?
5. What future work could *you* propose to the group that would also be of interest? 
6. What was the coolest or most intriguing thing you learned in the session?

You are not restricted to only answering to these questions, but please do these as a minimum. Again, think of this as a report back to your collegues. **You** have to teach them what you learned! 

**1:00 Statistical Foundations Session**

While I do have some background with statistics, I struggled with comprehending everything these experts discussed, however, I was able to make some small conclusions. The main topics of discussion primarily involved the following: access to data and finding a balance between forensic science and statistics (should it be its own discipline?)

*Data Access:*
This topic is as simple as it sounds. A lot of statisticians are having trouble drawing conclusions from the data they've collected because it is either not enough data or circumstantial data. With the former issue, there are a lot of legal complications that limit their access to the data they need in order to improve specific realms of forensic science. For example, mobile phones are extremely limited in what data you can access because of privacy issues; the data that is accessible is just dumped on forensic scientists and it is just piles on piles of information that is overwhelming. The latter issue is with data that has been collected, but only on a certain day. For example, you could have a bunch of data come in on shoeprints, but all the scanned shoeprints deal with all brand new tennis shoes that have only been worn a minimal amount of times. So the data you would have collected would only be applicable to fairly new shoes. So essentially there isn't enough data out there that statisticians and forensic scientists have access to in order to draw new conclusions on specific types of evidence. 


*Balance Between Forensics and Statistics:*
So this topic presented a challenge to everyone in the discussion because no one had a well defined solution to this problem. Most people thought that it is too often that statisticians try to meet forensic scientists on their end, but not always vice versa. I can see how this would happen because statisticians need to know what forensic scientists look at when identifying significant forms of evidence. Forensic scientists, however, don't have to necessarily know the process behind determining whether or not a piece of evidence is valid, they just want yes it is valid or no it is not.

Additionally, please report back on 1 poster presentation. Tell us:

- Who you talked to
- The institution they're with
- Their research question
- One result they report on
- At least one question you asked the poster presenter

### Bonus Challenge:

Take a picture with the poster presenter and put it in your blog submission. *Hint: How do you insert a photo in Markdown?*

## 1pm Session: Session Name Here

Your "report" goes here. 

## 3:15pm Session: Session Name Here

Your "report" goes here. 

## Poster Session: Poster Title Here

Your "report" goes here.

## Instructions (Read carefully, please!!):
Save a **copy** of this file, replacing "Lastname" in the filename with your own and **leave the original unedited**.

In **your copy**, replace the `title:` and `subtitle:` fields in the YAML above (put your name in the `subtitle` field), while leaving the remaining fields intact. Remove the background and the instructions sections and write your blog post! 

Once you are done, **create a pull request** to upload your changes to the original repository!

**Note**: The date above is the due date and time. Don't edit this field! 
